So I get asked the question a lot, what
is AOA all about? And so this is my
answer to that question.
So what I notice is that people,
especially in America, especially in the
Western world, have two major problems.
One is they're constantly stressed out.
And two, that they're not enjoying
themselves.
And this has a massive impact. The first
impact is in your personal life. If you
are stressed out all the time and you're
not enjoying yourself, what that means
is you're not learning as quickly. It
means that you are uh going to die
sooner. It means that you don't have as
many friends. There's all sorts of
evidence that tells you what stress and
lack of enjoyment is going to do in your
life that aren't good. But there's a
bigger problem than that. The problem is
that if I'm under stress,
I feel like there's a threat. And the
problem with treating the world as a
threat is that eventually the world
reacts like it's a threat. And you can
see this everywhere. You can see this in
the political parties. You can see this
between countries. You can see this in
families. You can see this with
teenagers and their and their parents.
They're constantly feeling like they're
under threat and then they're treating
people like a threat and then people act
like they are actually a threat. And
then there's this huge fight that's
going on on every level of our society.
So what people think is that we're
stressed and we're not enjoying
ourselves because
we have too much to do. the world is too
fast. We're overwhelmed with a to-do
list or our phones or we have to work
harder to make enough money to pay off
the car payment. And this is why we
think that stress is happening. It's all
this external stuff, but that's actually
not the real reason for stress. That
amplifies it, but it's not actually the
real reason. The real reason that we are
stressed is really three things. One is
that we're talking to ourselves in a
horrible way. We're constantly beating
ourselves up. And if you're constantly
under attack, you feel stressed. If
there's if you had a boss who was
sitting next to you and saying, "You
should have done that better. Why didn't
you do this? You're messing up. Why
haven't you gotten further along since
you're 40 years old?" You'd be stressed,
especially if it was talking at you 10,
20 times a minute, which is the what the
voice in your head is actually doing.
So, that's a huge cause of stress. The
second one is not actually feeling our
emotions. If you stop feeling emotions
right now, take this moment and try to
stop feeling all of your emotions
and you'll notice just like I'm doing
right now. You have to constrict your
muscles to do it. And that literally is
what it's like to be physically under
stress,
to tighten your muscles. That's the
second reason that we're mostly under
stress. And the third is that we don't
have that connection anymore. The
longest study that Harvard ever did was
all about how when we have a great sense
of community, everything is better. We
live longer. We're happier. Our lives
are more successful.
But we don't have that sense of
community anymore. We don't even have
that sense of connection with ourselves.
And if you do have that sense of
connection with yourself, you're far
less stressed.
At Art of Accomplishment, what we're
doing is we're going to the root,
which is the way that we talk about
ourselves, the way that we relate to
emotions,
and the amount of connection that we
have. Now, the way we think about those
three things is very different than most
people. So, most people think about the
relationship we have with ourselves as
we have to improve. I have to do some
self-improvement.
The problem with self-improvement is
that's just more abuse. That's just more
attack. Why aren't you skinnier? Why
aren't you happier? Why aren't you more
realized? Why aren't you more awakened?
It's just another form of a of attack.
Whereas, if you just realize
understand who you are, the same way you
would understand how to use a computer,
things start working. It doesn't work as
well if you're like, "God damn it, I
can't use a computer. Why can't I use a
computer? I got to get better at the
computer." as it does to understand how
a computer works. and then you don't
have to worry about getting better. You
understand it. It's the same thing. If
you understand yourself, things work a
lot better. So, we move away from
self-improvement and we move towards
self-standing.
The second thing that we do is in
emotions, we go for what we call
emotional clarity. You can also call it
emotional fluidity. So, typically
because our brains are scared of
emotions, we have these two thought
processes. either I have to manage my
emotions or I'm going to be taken away
by my emotions. I'm going to lose myself
in our my emotions. But there's actually
this other opportunity which is to feel
your feelings to express your feelings
in a way that doesn't hurt anybody in a
way that doesn't take you away. And so
think about it like this. People
typically are like, "Okay, I can't get
angry because if I get angry, I'm going
to hurt somebody."
And so their mind is, "Oh, either don't
get angry or you're getting angry at
screaming at somebody." But there's
another option. You can just get angry
and not hurt anybody. You can just feel
your anger. You can just actually invite
whatever emotional experience you're
having and learn how to accept and love
it. And when that happens, what occurs
is that the
emotions that you have, you stop
resisting. And it's the resistance of
those emotion that hurts. It's not the
emotion itself. We think it is. We think
it's like, oh, sadness hurts. But every
time we cry, we feel better. Notice or
we say, "Oh, the anger is going to
destroy everything." But if we actually
get angry, but without doing it at
somebody and we just like move that
anger, we feel more alive. We feel more
vibrant.
And so we're talking about a path that
allows for those emotions, but we do it
in such a way that it doesn't carry you
away and have you lost or indulge that
emotion. And then as far as connection,
the way we look at that differently is a
lot of people are like, "Oh, connection
is about the other person." But the
connection isn't about the other person.
It's about yourself. My capacity to love
myself is very highly correlated with my
capacity to love you. My capacity to be
honest with myself is very highly
correlated with my capacity to be honest
with you. My ability to connect with
myself is very much reflected in my
ability to connect with you. And so we
look at that connection not just as oh
how do you connect with somebody else
it's how do you connect with yourself
and what we learn is that when you're
connecting with other people and we do
so much of our work not as a film like
this or not as a lecture what I'm doing
right now a lot of our courses are all
about doing this work with other people
connecting with other people learning to
connect more deeply with others by
learning to connect more deeply with
ourselves
So that's how we do it and then
everything else falls out of that.
Meaning let's say you want to stop
procrastinating. How do you stop
procrastinating? Well, you feel the
emotions that you don't want to feel
that prevent you from doing the thing. I
don't want to do the thing right now
because I might have to feel something.
So you feel it. You also stop
procrastinating by being connection with
other people. Let's do the work
together. That's an easy way to stop
procrastinating. Another way that you
stop procrastinating is you realize
what's making you procrastinate rather
than telling yourself to stop
procrastinating.
You actually understand it. And and this
goes on for every single thing that
we're doing. How do you have better
relationships? You understand what's
stopping you in the relationship. You
learn how to connect. You feel your
feelings. So, it's it's really formulaic
when you really break it down. It's
really easy. We're constantly going back
to these three ways of looking at
yourself. And they're counterintuitive.
They're slightly different, but they
will get you great results every time.
So, that's what we're doing. That's
every that's that's why we're here. And
and you could say that we're here for a
lot of reasons. That was a great story
that I just told you as to why we're
here. Another story is that we're
teaching people how to love themselves.
Another story that we could tell is that
uh we want you to really understand how
amazing you are. A personal favorite
story of mine is, you know, the what I'm
here for is to make sure your children
and your children's children are raised
in such a way that they love themselves.
I could tell you a ton of stories about
it, but ultimately why we're here is
because when you're passionate about
something, you got to do it or you're
just not happy. And we're passionate
about helping ourselves and helping
other people realize the truth of who
they are.
[Music]